First, Dr. Quisenberry, tell us something about
your early life, including the names of your
parents, the places and dates of their birth and
death, the place and date of your birth, and the
schools you attended before enrolling at Texas
A&M. Well, I can't give you the dates on my father
and mother's birth and death, but I could give you
the place of birth. My father was born in McKinney,
Texas. His father migrated to Texas rather early
in the history of Texas, and he was born there My
mother was born in Tennessee, and they settled in
Gainesville, Texas, after their marriage, and I
was born in Gainesville. I was the...
I had three brothers and two sisters. I'm next to
the youngest in the family. I have a sister who is
living in Grand Prairie at the present time who is
younger than I am. And then when I was two years old,
I was born in June 25, 1907. And when I was two years
old, that would mean in 1909, my parents moved to
what I call West Texas. It was really Hardeman
County. at the lower end of the Panhandle, you
know, Texas Panhandle. And they lived on a rented
farm for a few years, and then my father bought 320
acres of land. The family moved on to this, and we
attended a rural school at that time. It was called
Friendship School. That was the name of the
precinct or school. And it was a two-room school.
And then later on, they enlarged it and made a
three-room school out of it. And I went to this
school until I was in my tenth. Actually, in those
days, we had eleven grades in Texas. I believe
today we have twelve, but in those days, eleven.
and I attended through my 10th grade, and they did
not teach the 11th grade, and so I transferred into
the county seat, Quanna, Texas, for my senior
year, and graduated from Quanna High School in
1927. Could you give us the names of your parents?
Yes, my mother was, her maiden name was Nancy Lane,
and my father was Walter Henry Quisenberry, W.H.
Quisenberry. And they...
My father, I'm very bad about memory and dates, but
my mother died first and she's been dead probably
about ten years and my father's been dead about six
years, I imagine. What type of farming did your
father do? It was general, diversified farming.
Most of the crops, the cash crop was majorly
cotton, but he grew also a little bit of corn, not
much corn, mostly grain sorghum, and then he grew
almost always, if the the
rainfall was adequate. He nearly always had
wheat, and once in a while he would have a little bit
of oats. But mostly, well I should have said cash
crop also, the wheat was majorly a cash crop, wheat
and cotton, but the grain sorghum was used for
feeding. We had dairy cattle where we had a little
more than the milk and butter for the family, and so
a little bit was sold as cream, usually. And then we
had horses, the early part. In fact, practically
all through my farming days, we did not have
tractor mechanical power. It was mostly horse and
mule power.
I guess that is the major essence of it. He had some
pasture land where the dairy
cattle were turned out for grazing in the grass.
And then, of course, they were fed usually
cottonseed meal and hulls for protein sources,
and then probably milo or grain sorghum for their
concentrate.
Did he do any irrigating at all? Not at that time.
There was no irrigation. We did have a well and a
windmill that supplied the... We didn't have
electric power extension, REA power at that time.
And so we had a windmill that pumped the water for
the cattle, for the livestock, let's say. It was,
in that area, the water is what we call gyp water.
It's a hard, extremely hard water and not very good
for drinking. And so most of our drinking water was
caught by a gutter on the house and run into a
underground cistern to keep it cool. And that's
the type of water we drank. And also it was that type
of water was used mostly for washing the dishes and
the clothes and so on. What factors were involved
in your choice of Texas A&M? Well, I had a county
agent in my county under whom I had an agriculture
project as a high school youngster. And he was a
Texas A&M graduate. I also had a vocational
agriculture teacher. I took vocational
agriculture my senior year in high school as one of
my subjects, and I didn't have a VOAG project as
such. But he was also from Texas A&M, and I dare say,
if I were real honest, I would say that these two
people, as in almost every case, the older we get,
the more we realize how important people are in
this world and how unimportant a lot of other
things that we think earlier is quite important
becomes, if you part a little philosophy at this
stage. But nevertheless, I think these two men—my
father had favored—Texas Tech had just been
established a little bit before that, and I think
living out near in the western part of the state, I
think my father would have probably been a little
happier if I had gone to Texas Tech. But I think I
definitely preferred to come to A&M myself as far
as opportunities for coursework and so on were
concerned. And as I said, these two men also
reinforced any tendency I might have had. I'm a
little bit interested in your comment that you did
not have an agricultural project in your
Vocational Agriculture course. You remember
when I took Vocational Agriculture in high
school, it was a requirement. Either you had a
project or you didn't pass the course. Well, as I
recall it, I may be confused here. I may have been
mixing up my 4-H county agent project with my VAWAG
project. I know I had Green Sargum as my project in
high school. This I know. And it may be that I did
some inadvertent switching of the credit for
that. So I may have also had a requirement at that
time. What were your first reactions to A&M and
College Station when you arrived? as an incoming
freshman? Well, you're talking to a person that is
a little bit different from probably the typical
one you'd talk to. It happens that when I was a
freshman in high school, I came down with
diabetes. And so I was a bit, I had to watch, and I had
to take insulin. If Banning and Best had not
discovered insulin when they did, if they'd have
been six months later in discovering and actually
making available on the market, they didn't make
available at the company, they did. making
available insulin, I would definitely not be
here. I would have another three months and I would
have been dead because I had already gone before
the discovery. I'd already gone just about as far
as I could possibly have gone. And so as a result of
it, I lost almost a year in high school. And then I
started taking insulin. And as long as I was at
home, I, through my tenth grade, my mother looked
after my diet, a very rich diet. And then in my
senior year, a very fine couple, a county judge and
his wife, who happened to be, he had married during
World War I, an English girl. And they invited me to
live in their home in Kwana. And so I cooked my own
meals and went to school. And so when I came to A&M,
it happened that the county agent, the man I'd had
as a county agent, had actually been employed as an
instructor in the animal science, or at that time
it was animal husbandry department, at Texas A&M.
And the instructional unit of the animal
husbandry department, they had a swine herd. It
was right out in the middle of where the golf course
is at the present time. And the herdsman for the
swine herd was a veteran. of World War I, and he had
been severely injured. He'd never married. He was
a bachelor. And he'd been severely injured with
gas, toxic gas, during World War I. And he lived
there, and this county agent contacted him and
asked him about the possibility of my having a
room, and so I could prepare my meals. and go to
school. And he said he'd be delighted to have
company and made it possible. So I came with my
brothers. Two of my brothers brought me to A&M and
installed me in the residence. And this is the way I
started the school. And so that was my first
impression. There was no intention of every...
Well, I knew that advanced education was
essential. I'd probably never be a very
successful farmer, physically. And so for that
reason, I had made up my mind, this is what had to be.
Your older brothers, then, I take it, had not gone
to college. No, no. In fact, of my brothers and
sisters, I'm the only one that graduated from a
university, a college or university. But your two
older brothers accompanied you to College
Station and installed you in the... They brought
me here with the necessary utensils for preparing
my meals and so on. So that's what started it. I'm
assuming you came by train? No, by car, by
automobile. How long a trip was it?
We took two days to come to College Station. We
stopped on the way in Fort Worth. I spent the night
in Fort Worth and then to College Station the next
day. Did you stay all four years with this
herdsman? No, I stayed two years with the
herdsman, and then he became ill and had to quit his
job. He lived over in the hill country, Schertz. or
Cibolo, Texas, and he had some sisters there. He
went back. And Mr. D.W. Williams, you possibly
know, he served in almost every capacity in this
institution, including acting chancellor and so
on. But Mr. D.W. Williams was head of the animal
husbandry department at that time. And when this
man left the farm, I had to leave the farm
residence. And so Mr. Williams made possible,
moved some books around and what have you in one of
the rooms here in the old Animal Husbandly Judging
Pavilion. And he gave me that, called me the
custodian. And incidentally, this is a story that
is not easy to forget. I lived in this corner of the,
that would be the northeast corner, of the old
judging pavilion during my junior year. And Tiger
Teague, whom everybody in this county knows, I
think, lived in the south corner That would be the
southwest corner of the Judging Pavilion. So we
were in opposite corners of the Judging Pavilion
one year. So we have a lot in common in that regard.
And where did you live your senior year? The man
came back. He recovered and came back to the swine
farm. And so he asked me if I wouldn't move back out.
And so I did and lived back at the swine farm during
my senior year. Were there very many students who
lived outside of the dormitories? Oh, no. Almost
all of the students lived in the dormitory, and
almost 100% of the students were cadets. I was a
cadet, but I was a day student. In those days, they
called them day students, those who lived outside
the dormitories. This is exaggerating a little
bit because I have no justification in terms of the
treatment I received. But as you know, the old
common statement is that a day student was the
lowest form of life in those days. But that was not
so in my case. I was in F Company infantry for my two
years. I couldn't take advanced because, you
know, it required a contract, and being diabetic,
they would not give me a contract. So I took the
first two years of military science, and I was in F
Company infantry, and the boys knew why I was a day
student. And they were a very wonderful bunch of
boys in my organization to me. So for that reason, I
never had any enmity or resentment against the
Cadet Corps of Military Science. Now, did you
participate in the drill? Yes. Oh, you bet. Yes,
indeed. I always made drill. I wore the uniform all
the time. and then I participated in the first two
years. The last two years you wore civilian
clothes? Well, my junior year I wore civilian
clothes. Then in the senior year,
the college changed its policy and required that
civilian students wear a uniform. They had what
they called an Aggie uniform. We wore everything,
the same uniform, except we didn't have the
insignia, the military insignia. So I did...
rejoin, and since I had to wear a uniform, I
rejoined my military organization and did wear
the insignia for the—I was not under contract or
anything of that sort, but I did—was back in the
cadet corps my senior year, but I still was a day
student.
And for all of the four years you cooked all of your
own meals? Yes, yes indeed. And even though you
were on a strict diet, you also continued to take
insulin? Yes, oh yes. I still take insulin. I've
taken, probably one of the very few that can say
that they have taken insulin for more than 50
years, because not very many diabetics live that
long.
Living... outside the dormitory as you did, say
particularly in your freshman year and being in
the corps, were, I'm assuming since you were not in
the dormitory, you were in a sense, excused from or
avoided a lot of the hassling that some of the
freshmen went through, like making beds and
cleaning rifles and that sort of thing? Yes, they
did not force me to do this at first until they
learned, until the whole organization learned.
why I was a day student. I got some of the other
things that, you used a kind word of hassling
on it, but it didn't take very long. The captain of
the company knew, soon learned, why I was a day
student. And then he informed and probably issued
a few orders to to particularly the sophomores in
the company.
What did the students of your day do for
entertainment and recreation? Well, I'll tell
you, in those days, I believe we studied longer
hours than we do today. I believe the
professors—this would be prejudiced answer—but
I believe the professors were harder on us than
they are today. Well, I know that the fellows in the
dormitories had an enforced study period, but of
course you were not in a dormitory. And you had
somewhat irregular hours from them, I guess. You
did not have an enforced study period, but then you
also did not have anybody to bother you, I presume.
No, but I did study. And being, I think, probably
the ability to study without any interference
also made it possible for me to make exceptionally
good grades.
Did the school provide any kind of entertainment,
such as movies, theatrical performances, and so
forth? Yes, yes, there was. There were two sources
of movies. There was the old assembly hall, which
is located now. I believe probably Lowy and
Puryear dormitories right at the back part of them
was where the old assembly hall was located right
in there, right opposite where the new hospital
building is. And you had movies there. Yeah, they
had movies there. I think, I'm not sure whether it
was only weekly or whether it was nightly. This I
don't know because I didn't go to very many movies
for two reasons. I was in school from 1927 to 1931.
And you may not be old enough to know, but 1931 was
the... age of the maximum depression that you
could have. So dollars were very, very scarce
indeed, and so they had to be saved. And you said
there were two sources. One was the assembly hall.
And I believe that the Guyon Hall at that time was
also used for some recreational material.
Did you have any favorite instructors?
Yes. I don't know whether if you ask me to name them,
I'm not sure I could name them all, and I'm not sure
I'd want to name them all, but the answer would be a
positive yes.
You're probably going to ask me what the
characteristics of those professors were. Well,
I was going to say if you could name any of them. Did
any of the faculty members have some influence on
your leaning towards work with poultry? Well, I
think Mr. D.W. Williams, I took a course under him,
and he was a very excellent professor and helped in
this direction to lean toward animal science, the
broad field of animal science. Povey came in later
in the graduate level, not as an undergraduate,
but at the graduate level. And then I can name a
couple more, and I'd like to do it, as a matter of
fact. My English professor, most ag students, as
you know, are a little reluctant to welcome their
English courses. But to me, my English courses
were some of my most enjoyable courses. I'd had a
very excellent English teacher in high school.
So she had been successful in indoctrinating me.
It wasn't an indoctrination. It was really a
challenge to me to do English well. And so Mr. P.G.
Gutter was one of my, he's long since dead now, but I
enjoyed Mr. Gutter as a Sunday school teacher
after I came back here for a number of years on the
faculty. but he was after his retirement, before
and after his retirement. But he was a very
excellent English teacher, and I enjoyed very
much courses under him. And then another English
teacher was the former librarian. You probably
have heard his name, and I don't think you have
probably ever met him, but Tommy Mayo, who was the
librarian. I had a course, and it was an unusual
course for English. It could well have been taught
in other departments, but it happened to be taught
in English and taught by a very fine teacher, and it
was called Modern Civilization. And what we did,
we went through a number of new books describing
what was to come. And as you can imagine, a
youngster at that age, they liked to use their
imagination. And so that type of course was quite a
challenge. I remember very distinctly those
courses as being excellent, very much enjoyed.
And was the Modern Civilization an elective or a
required course? Oh, no, it's selective. Oh, yes,
selective, yes. But you did have one hour. one year
of English as a requirement. I believe in those
days we had two years of required English, yes. But
I took some additional elective courses.
I know that for a long period the entire Corps was
assembled on Sunday morning and marched to
chapel. Was that still a practice when you were a
student? Yes, I believe it was. I believe it was.
And they had chapel in Guyon Hall, too. And so you
had to get up and join your company? No, no, I
didn't. I was excused from this. I went to Sunday
school in church, but I did it on my own. Being a day
student, I was not required to make that. I did have
to make the military, too. In those days, the drill
was on Tuesdays, and I did have to make all of those.
Tuesday afternoons? Yes. That was your only day of
drill? Yes, I believe that's right, yes. You said
you went to Sunday school and church. Did you go in
Guyon Hall or did you go to one of the churches off
campus? No, I went to a local church. At
the time that you were a student, what was the
general attitude of the students towards the
university administration or college
administration?
Having been on both sides, I hope you'll forgive me
for adding a few extra words onto this. But I think
in general, the students thought that if there was
one thing that could be dispensed with in their
college training, those days it was Texas A&M, so
college or university training, it would have
been the administration. But I don't think that's
changed too much. I believe it's a little more
acceptable today than it was then, but there's
still a tendency for it to be that way.
We know that a lot of students during the years have
had part-time jobs, and you have were custodian,
or indicated you were custodian of the Animal
Husbandry Pavilion for your junior year, I
believe. Yes. Did you have other jobs during the
other years that you were a student? Yes, indeed.
In fact, that year, the custodian was really an
earning of the... of the room, the space where I
lived. In addition to this, that same year I had to
work because I I had practically no source of
income. My parents, it was in the days when they
just did not have money, and I was from a fairly
large family. And so I worked for twenty-five
cents an hour. They gave me work at the swine farm,
and I worked there the first two years, and then I
worked there during my junior year when I lived in
the pavilion. And then I worked also in my senior
year. I worked all four years at 25 cents an hour.
Now, in addition to that, there was some earning. I
collected specimens for the botany professor,
Dr. Ball. He's long. He was head of the department.
But I collected specimens. And then a part of a
year, I worked part time in cleaning up the
agricultural engineering shops after the
classes.